# Bike-Sharing-Analysis

# Business Problem Understanding
## Context
Bike sharing systems are new generation of traditional bike rentals where whole process from membership, rental and return back has become automatic. Through these systems, user is able to easily rent a bike from a particular position and return back at another position. Currently, there are about over 500 bike-sharing programs around the world which is composed of over 500 thousands bicycles. Today, there exists great interest in these systems due to their important role in traffic, environmental and health issues.

Apart from interesting real world applications of bike sharing systems, the characteristics of data being generated by these systems make them attractive for the research. Opposed to other transport services such as bus or subway, the duration of travel, departure and arrival position is explicitly recorded in these systems. This feature turns bike sharing system into a virtual sensor network that can be used for sensing mobility in the city. Hence, it is expected that most of important events in the city could be detected via monitoring these data.

## Problem Statement
Due to the cost to provide the amount of bikes that meets the demand and also do maintenance for long term, it is less effective and inefficient at the same time if we are just gonna put as many bikes as we can on the streets.

## Goals
Based on the problems that we had, bike sharing systems need some kind of tools that be able to make prediction about how much bikes that we need to provide based on the time and conditions

## Analytic Approach
With that so, we are trying to made an analysis from dataset to discover is there any pattern from the features. we will do it by making regression model so it can output some predictions about how much bikes that will be rented based on the features like season, weather, humidity, temp and many more.

## Metric Evaluation
Evaluation metrics that we'll use for this dataset are `Root Mean Squared Error (RMSE)`, `Mean Absolute Error (MAE)`, `Mean Absolute Percentage Error (MAPE)`, and `R-squared`.
* The Mean absolute error represents the average of the absolute difference between the actual and predicted values in the dataset. It measures the average of the residuals in the dataset.
* The Mean absolute persentage error represents the average absolute percent difference between the values that are fitted by the model and the observed data values.
* Root Mean Squared Error is the square root of Mean Squared error. It measures the standard deviation of residuals.

# Data Understanding
* Dataset contains information about bikes that being rented from 2011 until 2012
* Each records are the representation about the conditions from these rentals system

**Attributes Information**
 
|Feature|Data Type|Description| 
| --- | --- | --- | 
| dteday | object | Date | 
| hum | float64 | Normalized humidity. The values are divided to 100 (max) | 
| weathersit | int64 | (1: Clear, Few clouds, Partly cloudy, Partly cloudy), (2: Mist + Cloudy, Mist + Broken clouds, Mist + Few clouds, Mist), (3: Light Snow, Light Rain + Thunderstorm + Scattered clouds, Light Rain + Scattered clouds), (4: Heavy Rain + Ice Pallets + Thunderstorm + Mist, Snow + Fog) | 
| holiday | int64 | Whether the day is holiday or not | 
| season | int64 | (1:winter, 2:spring, 3:summer, 4:fall) | 
| atemp | float64 | Normalized feeling temperature in Celsius. The values are derived via (t-t_min)/(t_max-t_min), t_min=-16, t_max=+50 (hourly scale) | 
| temp | float64 | Normalized temperature in Celsius. The values are derived via (t-t_min)/(t_max-t_min), t_min=-8, t_max=+39 (hourly scale) 
| hr | int64 | Hour of the day (00:00 AM - 23:00 PM)| 
| casual | int64 | Count of casual users | 
| registered | int64 | Count of registered users | 
| cnt | int64 | Count of total rental bikes including both casual and registered |

# Conclusion
XGBoost is the best performing model out of the six models and is more robust against overfitting and noise. However, it seems like because of the lack amount of data cause a terribly score on data train than on test score (MAPE 0.75 for train score and MAPE 0.05 for test score). 

It usually indicates that there are some differences between the kind of data that trained the model on and the testing data that provided for evaluation. When the data being splitted, Data train contain data from 2011 only and being 'splitted' again by cross validation process so it scores terribly on train score while on data test, it used all the data from 2011 to predict data from 2012       

Spending more time on feature selection and engineering and also adding more data can leads to better result.

# Recommendation
* Adding the amount of data, especially for an annual cycle so that the data train could become larger and the prediction become more accurate eventually
* Adding more features contain of data that can also be represent or contribute to the amount of bikes that being rented from days to days.
* Making some kind of systems that can make customer to be able to rent the bike from days before, so that the amount of bikes that being placed on each stations can be adjusted by the reservation system also.


